---
layout: page
title: 1)
permalink: /FOSS/1/
---

#### 1. Community Engagement and Leadership (Points 1-10)

1. Vibe coding is fundamentally about social coding and engagement. The key is **JUST DO IT!** That is, of course, [what vibe coding or the whole notion of health hacking are completely about](https://brunosolutions.github.io/engagement/2025/03/10/Vibe-Coding-For-Community-HealthTech-Solutionware.html).
2. Form a DOGE-Food Task Force with representatives from local businesses, schools, healthcare, agriculture, and residents to lead the initiative.
3. Create a community collaborative vibe coding process or other ways of social involvement [free or meetings] involving all age groups and people from other geographies.
4. Launch a community newsletter or blog to highlight updates, success stories, and opportunities.
5. Organize annual community awards to celebrate contributions to the DOGE-Food plan.
6. Establish a community volunteer program to mobilize residents for projects.
7. Create a community calendar for events, workshops, and activities.
8. Set up a suggestion box (physical and online) for residents to submit ideas.
9. Organize quarterly volunteer-led community clean-up days to build community pride, teamwork and to reduce costs while practically improving upon recycling and resource recovery programs.
10. Host seasonal Community Garden picnics or tie-ins with Farmer's Markets to strengthen social connections, especially connections to local food. Make these conjointly with monthly townhall meetings to encourage City ombudsmanship, gather adhoc ideas, share GitHub pages resources or other ways to plug-in to being involved in progress, and ensure transparency.


